# Utilities
This section is about Teamcenter Utilities.
Teamcenter Utilities are commands that can be run in the Teamcenter Command Prompt. Teamcenter Utilities are often used for database maintenance as well as for import and export of Teamcenter data. Recently, I did some work on exporting data from Teamcenter using the SIEMENS provided Teamcenter Utilities and I would like to share my thoughts on the matter. 

## Initial Investigation
There was a requirement for developing a solution to export data from Teamcenter. I began trying to find a solution for exporting data from Teamcenter using ITK or SOA. The ITK and SOA capabilities of Teamcenter are an area that I have found to be frustrating and lacking in effective documentation, thus, an ineffective method of programmatically interacting with Teamcenter data. I eventually fell onto the idea of using utilities that can be run from the Teamcenter command line to export data from Teamcenter. The documentation of Teamcenter Utilities has proven to be more robust with practical examples that can be modified by use case. 

## Using Teamcenter Utilities
I am familiar with using python as a programming language. While the Teamcenter application does not have an available API for python, it is entirely possible to call programs to the command line using python. That is where the Teamcenter Utilities come into play. The Utilities provided by SIEMENS can be called using a python script. Using python to call Teamcenter Utilities is quite useful as python is excellent for data analysis and manipulation. For my use case, I needed to be able to call hundreds of unique command line arguments sequentially. Using python, I can dynamically define each command line string of text that needs to be run using built-in data manipulation functions. In this way, I can directly interact with Teamcenter to export data and process the data to the output I desire. Performing these actions all within the same python project makes for a clean experience of data extraction from Teamcenter, to transforming the data, then loading the data to the appropriate format for consumption. 
